[Music]
excuse me
andy yes hello i'm sarah taylor i'm your
new local buyer pleased to meet you it's
a very kind of you to meet me oh sorry
this is my husband mark
good morning how are you very well thank
you
how was your flight oh actually i'm a
bit tired it was a very long flight
let's get your bags
oh that's mine there the red
emily one don't worry mark strong aren't
you dear no worries
come on let's go to the hotel
thank you very much for picking me up
you're very welcome
you'll be alright here thanks i'll be
fine and thank you mark for helping with
my heavy bag
don't mention it all right then nice to
meet you finally
i'll ring you tomorrow nice to meet you
too goodbye
good morning would you like to check in
yes please and your name and leigh
uh yes could you just fill this out
please
how long will you be staying two weeks
are you here on business
mainly business will you need a hire car
no thank you
and will you need a map of the city uh
maybe later
when you want a newspaper in the morning
no thank you okay
and how will you be paying ms lee credit
card
thank you
okay and here's your key
that's room 309 enjoy your stay ms lee
thank you
i hope i will
so
hello baba's private investigation
john barbara speaking hello can you find
missing people
sometimes we can have you lost somebody
yes perhaps you'd like to tell me about
it
uh can i make an appointment please when
would you like to come in
is tomorrow okay let's see
[Applause]
yes i can see you at 10 o'clock will
that suit you
okay thank you uh 23
mitchell street is that right that's
right second floor
okay see you then goodbye
[Music]
goodbye
hmm
hello hello reception what time is it
please
it's five o'clock and what time do you
save dinner the restaurant opens in an
hour and dinner is served between
six and nine pm and breakfast
breakfast to serve between 7 and 9 30
a.m ma'am
thank you you're welcome
excuse me yes could you tell me how to
get to mitchell street
yes you're you're going the wrong way
you need to go straight along here
past the silver balls turn left and
that's the second
on the right opposite the town hall
thank you very much you're welcome
excuse me yes i'm looking for number 23
barber's private investigator over there
next to the trees
thank you good luck you're neither
ah come in
sorry yes any time
oh yes usual rates i must go now
uh right goodbye
ms robert julia bye
mr obama john john uh private
investigator
uh you must be uh ms lee please
sit down
now
what can i do furiously
could you find him for me
can you help me well i'll try
now tell me about your
brother ms lee
how old is he he's 23.
well that would make him your younger
brother
oh what's his name david
and what does he do he's a student or
he was a student i don't know where he
is
how tall is he about 175 centimeters
and does he speak english yes he speaks
english and chinese
mr baba can you find him
i'll certainly try now tell me
a little about yourself masali where are
you from
i come from singapore i'm singaporean
right and how old are you i'm 25.
what do you do i import wine i'm a
businesswoman i work in my family's
business
are you married no i'm single
and do you have a boyfriend pardon
oh sorry we private investigators
are naturally curious bunch um
ms lee perhaps you'd better tell a whole
story
it all started two years ago my brother
david worked in the family business too
but he didn't like it he wanted to try
something different
so what happened my parents agreed they
let him come to australia to study
where did he go he came here to adelaide
he studied computer science we thought
he was happy
and then what happened i don't know he
wrote every week and then the letters
stopped
do you know where he lived he stayed
with an australian family he was a
border
and here's the address
did you phone them yes of course
he left there a year ago i don't know
where he went
does he have a mobile phone i don't know
he did but he doesn't answer it now
[Applause]
don't worry miss lee i'll find your
brother
hmm it's very smooth good flavor too
it sells well in restaurants here i
think these are so well in singapore
and the samples you sent me were very
popular with our staff
you seem to understand our taste in
singapore thank you
it's my job to know what my clients like
so are you enjoying the city
that's very nice what are you going to
do tomorrow
i don't know i'll probably stay in the
hotel and relax
why don't you come to lunch with us at
home oh thank you but
you have your family yes and they want
to meet you
we're going to have roast chicken
traditional aussie food
sounds good all right i'll come great
what time we eat at about one o'clock so
about 12
30 i'll show you the house okay thank
you
i'll get my brother to pick you up no
that's okay i'll get a taxi
all right then it's settled
here we are how much is that that will
be 17.50 thanks love
keep the change thank you have a nice
[Music]
day
so hello
i'm anne mummy
coming in
what a beautiful house it's been a lot
of work but we're getting there
this is the bathroom
this is my daughter's bedroom and here's
the kitchen
and here uh you've met my daughter
louise hello louise
i'm helping yes i see and my husband
mark
hello again oh sorry about my heavy bag
just kidding but you haven't met my
little brother
this is steve i was going to pick you up
this morning
you wouldn't let me i'm sorry i'd like
to find my own way around
no worries
maybe another time yes
maybe come on let's go outside
so anne have you been to an australian
home before no
never it's a beautiful home sarah so big
the rooms are much bigger than at home
there's more space here
do you live in a house no steve she
lives in an igloo
actually no we live in an apartment most
people do
singapore is much busier than adelaide
and more crowded
yeah and more exciting so boring here
it's quieter some people like that i
don't think it's boring
adelaide is a very beautiful city it's a
better place to live than
anywhere else i've been but you haven't
been anywhere
mark hates travelling i love it
i just don't see the point of it
what about you steve do you like to
travel yes
yeah i've been to kuala lumpur and into
bali
bali's great i've been to the zoo
you're lucky i haven't been to the zoo
i'd love to go to the zoo
i'll take you
i'm sorry about my brother
you have a lovely family
everyone seems so happy man what's the
matter
there's something i haven't told you oh
what is it
when i met your brother i was thinking
about my brother david
i haven't seen it for two years welcome
he's missing one reason i came to
australia is to find him
i'm so sorry have you had any luck
not yet
i've hired a private investigator oh
goodness
do you think you'll find him perhaps
i don't know it's been a long time since
david last call
what do you think's happened to him have
you any idea
i really don't know
i can't help thinking the worst i'm sure
he's all right
if something bad had happened you would
have heard
i guess so i suppose you're right
can i help you find your brother you're
very kind
it's not your problem i want to help
what can i do well
maybe you could get some copies made of
this photograph
sure i'd love to anything
he's very good looking such a nice smile
is he tall fairly tall he looks very fit
does he play a lot of sport well he used
to
what does he do is he a student he's not
really academic
he's clever but he prefers to do things
with his hands
he sounds nice i'm looking forward to
meeting him
come in anne good morning good morning
are you feeling better today
yes thank you what's on the agenda
i'm thinking about this trip to the
wineries i want to meet your main
suppliers and talk to them about the
market
great they've been dying to meet you uh
when do you want to go
as soon as possible how about tomorrow i
can't tomorrow i've got some other
appointments uh what about the day after
tomorrow
uh yes that's good it's monday today so
that will be
wednesday what date is that uh the fifth
of november
okay what time should we meet i'll pick
you up at nine o'clock
good how many wineries you think we'll
be able to see i'm not sure
four or five are definitely our biggest
suppliers
uh and maybe a few surprises oh i can't
wait
will it take all day most of the day
i'll start ringing now and let them know
that we've got a very important client
all the way from singapore
thank you i'm looking forward to it me
too
medina hotel marie speaking how may i
help you can i speak to ms anne lee
please
i'm not sure what room she's in i'll put
you through sir
hello hello anne this is steve parker
steve parker steve sarah's brother
oh steve hello steve hi
what are you doing oh working i'm
planning a trip to the wineries later in
the week
ah when are you going uh wednesday oh
good what are you doing tomorrow
um nothing
why well i have the day off and
i was just wondering well i was just
wondering whether you want to go to a
wildlife park
with me you said you'd like to go to the
zoo
that's right i did yes thank you steve
i'd love to go
all right i'll meet you in the foyer
10 o'clock okay 10. i'll see you then
great good night anne good night steve
two pleats and a bag of food
and your chickens have a nice day
how much do i owe you ah it's okay it's
my treat thank you
i'll buy lunch is there somewhere to
have lunch of course there's a cafe just
over there
what do you want to do first i really
want to hold a koala is there a koala
here
yes it's the most popular animal we
might have to queue though i don't mind
what else is there are there some
kangaroos of course there are lots
and birds i've heard australian birds
are amazing don't worry you'll get to
see lots of birds
what should we do first well the
kangaroos are just over there
and i think the birds are next and next
he'll cuddle a koala sure
and after that after that i'll buy lunch
it's a deal
look at this big grey one he's massive
he has very very strong arms and legs
and a big strong tail
yeah and he is very big ears
this fur looks very soft it feels soft
on my hand
it's got beautiful big brown eyes
oh look at that little black and white
one oh yeah i think that's a willy
wagtail
they're very fast they move around a lot
it's cute
it's got such a long tail
oh look at that bird oh that's a
kingfisher oh we have them in singapore
really
look at its beautiful blue back very
colorful isn't it
there's lots in australia big ones and
small ones
we have a very big one called a
kookaburra has a very interesting laughs
so soft and cuddly yeah they're like me
they've actually also got really sharp
claws see
oh it's so cute can i take him home
i don't think they'd be very happy about
that
look at that one
what's the matter nothing i'm
just feeling a bit homesick
come on let's go get some e
what would you like yeah um
i'll have a cheese and salad sandwich
and a cappuccino
thanks do you have wine no sir we don't
serve alcohol we have
coffee tea soft drinks and juices okay
i'd like a orange juice and a pie with
chips do you have sauce
just help yourself and i'll bring the
food when it's ready thank you
is that good it's delicious
you should try one true aussie food
maybe one day
i don't need a lot of meat how's your
coffee it's very good
don't you drink coffee sometimes i
prefer tea or
juice so is the koala the best
oh definitely the kangaroos are
interesting too i've never seen her once
before
and the birds are wonderful i think i
like the birds the most
they're so colorful in so many different
kinds what about you
what did you like best just being here
tell me about your life in singapore
what do you do every day
well i work in my father's business
importing wines i live with my family
how do you get to work do you catch a
bus usually
sometimes i go with my father in his car
what about you what do you do
i'm a builder i build houses
how do you get to work i drive i have to
use my car for work so
i never go by bus
do you enjoy it your work mostly
it's not easy being a builder but it's
outside
i prefer to work outside i never work
occasionally i travel though right now
and
what do you do on the weekends sometimes
i go shopping
sometimes i go out
where do you go nightclubs not really
occasionally
who do you go with a bunch of friends
boyfriend not at the moment
did you have a good day very much thank
you for taking me
how about you of course not too boring
you must have been there a hundred times
not since i was a kid it was great
do you like chinese food i love chinese
food i'm gonna cook a chinese meal for
you and your family
really that'll be great when friday
fantastic oh i'll see you then yes
bye
excuse me sorry leslie i didn't see you
could i have my key please
certainly here you are
oh and there's a message for you
dear ms lee please call my office i have
some news for you
john barber private investigator
have you found my brother not yet no
not quite
but i have found something what is it
i went to the university you said he was
a student
i spoke to his professor the head of the
course he studied
and what did he say does he know what
happened
well no not exactly uh he didn't know
where your brother went
but he told me david had left the
university he
stopped going to lectures when did he
stop
about a year ago he didn't tell anyone
but he left the letter with the
professor
a letter have you got it where is it
it the professor has it he wouldn't give
it to me
because it was addressed to you he left
his ah his card
i'll go and see him thank you oh i i
found out something else
yes your brother had a girlfriend really
he didn't tell me who is she well i
don't know yet
but i'm sure i can find her we're
closing in ms lee
fear not thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
hello dear how are you very well thank
you
are you sure is anything wrong no i'm
fine
i watched you walking you walk sadly
i'm old i walk slowly but you walk sadly
well i do have a problem
not too serious i hope i don't know
i hope not worrying doesn't help my dear
think positively it helps
do something take action you'll be all
right
i hope so thank you
where are you from dear singapore you
speak english very well
thank you sometimes when people speak
very quickly i can't understand
don't worry i speak slowly
and i see badly these days
what number bus is that dear it's 190.
at last it was nice talking to you
[Music]
does this bus go to the university yes
how much is that single day trip sorry
are you coming back today yes how long
have you been university
i'm not sure an hour perhaps a single
will do you can use the same ticket to
come back that's three dollars please
how far is it uh not far about four
kilometers from here
how many stops is it about ten thank you
[Music]
university this is your stop miss oh
thank you
[Music]
where do i catch the bus to go back just
across the street over there
how often do the buses come every 20
minutes you won't have to wait long it's
10 30. the next one's at 10 40 and then
11 o'clock
thanks bye have a good day
i'm sorry to hear your brother's gone
missing miss lee
we're also worried i've come to adelaide
to look for him
how long did he study here uh i'm not
sure
two semesters did he get good grades i'm
afraid not
i don't think computer science was the
right direction for him
the investigator mr baba said you have a
letter from david
of course yes
it's addressed to you uh
i told him i'd only give it to you in
person
dear anne please don't look for me
i need to be by myself i can't study
anymore
tell mum and dad to forget about me and
take care of themselves
you too look after yourself
i'm sorry love your brother david
here
[Music]
i don't know what to do
i think you should go to the police but
he says i shouldn't look for him
yes well he might have felt that way
then but a year is a long
if i were you i'd report your brother
missing
should i tell my parents about the
letter your poor parents
they must be so worried
i think you should tell them what you
know
what if i can't find him have faith
i'm sure you will you know your brother
you'll find him
i'll show you out
well good luck miss lee
i don't know what else to do um
why don't you advertise in a newspaper
put a photograph of your brother there
somebody might recognize him good i
haven't thought of that
my advice is never give up thank you for
your help
when you find your brother say hello to
him for me
i will
first one flag black
don't say black or black okay this
is black black
this one blue blue
this one bro brown
brown this one gray
gray a y or e y
the same okay uh
a and why this is british
sorry this is american english and e
well this is
british english okay so great
this one green gra
green green so again
black black blue
blue brown brown
gray gray
green green
this one pink pink
purple er purple
this one arrange remember
if the word where and where g
and e we say j orange
orange red
red yellow
yellow white
white monday
monday tuesday
tuesday this is american english and in
british english
we say tuesday tuesday
this one wednesday
a lot of my students say this is
wednesday
they think this is idi
so they say wednesday wednesday
or some people say
when next day when next day sorry
they are not correct okay this is when
wednesday wednesday
this one thursday
thursday remember okay
tuesday wednesday and thursday we have
s in the middle so remember okay in the
middle
tuesday wednesday
thursday this one th so remember put
your tongue between your teeth
like this thursday thursday
okay this one friday
friday remember
the consonant cluster for okay so we
have
friday friday
quickly friday saturday
saturday sunday
sunday january february
march april may
june july august
september november sorry
october november
december month
now let's go to
let's go to some questions and answer
which this is remember
which months of
the year do you like best
which month of the year do you like best
i love september i love
september my birthday is
in september remember before the month
we use the preposition in
okay not on or ed we use in
okay so i love september
because my birthday is in
september the first one spring
spring spur this
is not easy so
spring spur spring
spring this one summer
summer very easy ah four
and autumn in american english
people use four in british english
people use
autumn so neither so anything is okay so
we say four 4 autumn
autumn this one winter
winter again
spur spring spring
summer summer four
four autumn autumn
winter winter and remember this tea here
we stress in the first syllable wing
so for the team that is not stressed we
can say
something in american english so we
so we can say the winter winter
now this is season
season we have rainy season
rainy season that means during that
season
it rains a lot rainy season
or instead of saying rainy season we can
say the word monsoon
monsoon season again
rainy remember these
are rainy season
monsoon monsoon season
and we have dry remember they are the
constant cluster
dry dry season dry season a
b c d
e f g
h i
j k
l m n
o p q
r s t
u v
w x y
z this one you can pronounce this one
z or z the same okay
z z